# Recurrent Neural Networks for Molecular Dynamics

# Abstract
Systems in molecular dynamics are governed by ordinary differential equations, expressed through Hamilton's equations. As analytical solutions are not always possible for complex systems, simulations are required to gain intuition on these systems' behaviour. These simulated trajectories are typically generated using numerical methods, including integrators like Euler and Verlet. We explore the application of Neural Network based machine learning for the task of simulation. Applying deep, recurrent and Hamiltonian neural networks to simple and chaotic systems, we demonstrate the capability of these networks to produce fast, accurate results, that obey physical laws of conservation, in multiple example systems. 

# Contents of this Repository
This repository contains all the python code and notebooks used and referenced in my Masters project. 

The code present allows us to construct and train neural networks of dense, recurrent and Hamiltonian architecture, using training data generated by a range of known integration schema, and in the case of the simple harmonic oscillator, data from the analytical solution.

The notebooks present allow us to train our neural networks and assess their performance on a range of dynamical systems, generating plots of the position and velocity error versus the baseline training integrator, the L2-Norm of position and velocity errors, the energy drift and the statespace diagram for a range of simulation timespans.

In addition to the dynamical systems discussed in the paper, this repository also contains the code necessary to run the experiments on the 1D Lennard-Jones Oscillator and the 3D three-body chaotic system. It also contains the symplectic Euler integration scheme, alongside the symplectic Verlet, RK4 and Euler schema detailed in the paper.
